# PCAP Associate Level Exam

1. General review

- ints
- math
- if statements

2. Strings in depth

- ascii
- chr ord
- methods
- tuples, lists

3. Functions & generators

- generators
- yield/yield from
- lazy evaluation
- functional programming
- ternary operator

4. Object Oriented Programming in depth

- inheritance
- overriding
- polymorphism
- introspection
  - `dir()`
- exception hierarchies

---

## `__main__.py`

Python looks for a file called `__main__.py`
to know what to execute

When you run `python folder`, Python looks for this file.
It will execute whatever is inside it.

## `__init__.py`

Tells python that the current folder is a _package_
Or, that it can contain multiple different python files/modules

# Dev tools

## Linters

Flake8

## Formatters

Black

# Generators vs. Functions

A generator is a way to create an iterator.

## So what's an iterator?

Anything that you can iterate over.

### So what's iteration?

Anything you can write `for x in xs` to loop over.

`__iter__` `for node in linkedlist: print(node)`

## `__iter__`

Creates a new iterator object.
Iterator objects have a special method called `__next__`

## `__next__`

Given an iterator object,
it finds some way to "generate" or "calculate"
the "next value" in the object.

The object has to keep track of some state
so it knows which value to produce next.

## Why iterators?

- They take up _way_ less space than a list
- You don't have to produce all the values up front
  before you can use them.
- You can generate values on the fly as you need them.
- You only need as much space as one value would take up.

## Why not iterators?

- They can be exhausted
- Once a value is produced, you can't look at it again.
  It's gone unless you stored it in a list somewhere.

## Generators?

A generator is an easier way to create iterator objects.

We can essentially just write a function that
calculates the values we want, but instead of building
up a list, we can **yield** each value as we calculate it.

```python
def generate():
    yield 1
    yield 2
    yield 3


g = generate()

print(type(g))  # Generator (iterator) object

for value in g:
    print(value)  # 1\n2\n3


g2 = generate()
print(next(g2))  # 1

lst = [1, 2, 3]
last_elem = lst.pop()
print(last_elem)  # 3
print(lst)  # [1, 2]

for value in g2:
    print(value)  # 2\n3
```

# Lazy evaluation

We only have to produce values when they're needed.
